---
layout: youtube-post
title:  'Stress Relief Daily Relaxer // 6Hz Binaural Beats // 250Hz Carrier // Pure Tones'
date: 2024-01-15
categories: [Relax, Stress, Anxiety]
tags: [6Hz, 250Hz]
youtubeid: _gPYFqhHz94
---

<p class="premono" markdown="1">
This is a replica of a study that showed success using 6Hz (Theta Wave) Binaural Beats with a 250Hz carrier tone to reduce stress and help relax. Participants listened for 10 minutes every day, and there were some immediate improvements in both Heart Rate Variability (HRV) and Brunel mood scale (BRUMS), but long-term daily use produced progressively better results.

See the reference below for more details, but this version is a replica of the audio used in that study (10 minutes of 6Hz Binaural Beats created by playing 250Hz in the left ear and 256Hz in the right ear). To replicate the study for yourself, listen for 10 minutes every day for at least one entire month.

Please SUBSCRIBE so I can disable mid-roll ads.

â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
ğğ‘ğğ†ğ‘ğ€ğŒ :
00:00 6Hz for 10 minutes (250Hz Left / 256Hz Right)
â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
ğ–ğ€ğ‘ğğˆğğ†ğ’ & ğƒğˆğ’ğ‚ğ‹ğ€ğˆğŒğ„ğ‘ :
See the [WARNINGS & DISCLAIMER](/legal/disclaimer.html) page.
â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
ğˆğğ’ğ“ğ‘ğ”ğ‚ğ“ğˆğğğ’ :
1. Use decent quality stereo headphones and make sure they are in the correct ears (left and right). Headphones with noise isolation are even better.
2. Only turn the volume up enough to hear the pulsing or wobbling effect of the Binaural Beat. Louder isn't better and only risks damaging your hearing.
3. When trying to meditate or relax with the beats, close your eyes and try to clear your mind. Focus on the sound and let it take you away.
4. To replicate the experiment from the pilot study, listen to the whole 10 minutes daily for at least one entire month.
â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
ğ‘ğ„ğ…ğ„ğ‘ğ„ğğ‚ğ„ğ’ :
Pilot study that found listening to 6Hz Binaural Beats for 10 minutes daily improved heart rate variability and mood, even more progressively after long-term use.
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10210552>
M. Chockboondee, T. Jatupornpoonsub, K. Lertsukprasert and Y. Wongsawat, "Long and Short Durations of Binaural Beats Differently Affect Relaxation: A Study of HRV and BRUMS," in IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 84842-84851, 2023, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3303183.
â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
#stress #stressrelief  #stressreliefmusic  #anxiety #anxietyrelief #mood
</p>