---
layout: youtube-post
title:  'Improve Focus // 40Hz Binaural Beats // 174Hz Solfeggio Carrier // Pure Tones'
date: 2024-01-15
categories: [Focus, Concentration]
tags: [40Hz, 174Hz]
youtubeid: JB8693hEh6Q
---

<p class="premono" markdown="1">
Peer-reviewed studies have found that listening to 40Hz Binaural Beats before a task can improve focus and concentration. Other studies have documented some benefits from listening to 174Hz sounds (the lowest "healing" Solfeggio frequency). This video combines the two for the benefits of both. See references below.

If 174Hz doesn't resonate with you, visit my channel for alternate versions and find the one that's right for you.

Listen to the entire 15 minutes. Your brain needs at least 5 minutes to synchronize. Most research suggests 15 minutes minimum. Some suggest 30 or 60 minutes, so see instructions below to enable looping if you want to play it longer.

Please SUBSCRIBE so I can disable mid-roll ads.

â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
ğ–ğ€ğ‘ğğˆğğ†ğ’ :
1. DO NOT LISTEN to these or any other Binaural Beats when driving, operating machinery, or performing any task that requires your full focus and attention. They affect everyone differently and can induce a meditative state in some people.
2. SEEK MEDICAL ADVICE before listening to these or any other Binaural Beats if you have any conditions that may be triggered in some way (e.g., Epileptic, Seizures, Pregnant, Pacemaker, Mind Altering Drugs).
3. LISTEN AT A COMFORTABLE LEVEL so you don't cause ear damage. Louder volume does not increase the effectiveness of brain entrainment.
â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
ğˆğğ’ğ“ğ‘ğ”ğ‚ğ“ğˆğğğ’ :
1. Use decent quality stereo headphones and make sure they are in the correct ears (left and right). Headphones with noise isolation are even better.
2. Only turn the volume up enough to hear the pulsing or wobbling effect of the Binaural Beat. Louder isn't better and only risks damaging your hearing.
3. When trying to meditate or relax with the beats, close your eyes and try to clear your mind. Focus on the sound and let it take you away.
4. To get the most benefit, listen to the entire program because it takes time for the brain to synchronize.
5. For longer sessions, you can LOOP the video. On a browser, right click on the video and select "Loop" in the overlay that pops up. On mobile, touch the gear icon for the video, then select "Additional Settings" and toggle on the "Loop" setting.
â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
ğ‘ğ„ğ…ğ„ğ‘ğ„ğğ‚ğ„ğ’ :
1. Some peer-reviewed studies have found that listening to 40Hz Binaural Beats can help focus and concentration (and more).
<https://scholar.google.com/scholar?as_ylo=2020&q=40hz++%22binaural+beats%22&hl=en&as_sdt=0,10>
2. Some studies have found benefits from listening to music with 174Hz.
<https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C10&q=174hz+solfeggio+effects&btnG=>
â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
ğƒğˆğ’ğ‚ğ‹ğ€ğˆğŒğ„ğ‘ :
Any information provided is a result of my personal experience and personal research. I am not a medical professional. This is not a substitute for proper medical, psychological, or spiritual advice. This content is strictly for personal experimentation and entertainment. By voluntarily using this content, you take full responsibility for any consequences, and you assume all risks and liabilities, including any losses, injuries, or damages.
â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”â”
#binaural #binauralbeats #brainwaves #braintraining #40hz #174hz #focus #focusmusic #concentration #concentrationmusic #solfeggio #solfeggiofrequencies
</p>
